readme.md, before:

TLDR: git clone https://github.com/Isaiah53John316/sdwebui-Amethyst-Merger.git

# Personal Edits and Fixes:
- UI updated - Huge WIP.
- Performance optimizations and memory optimizations.
- LoRA tab fixes. Autosave toggle added. Model now loads after merge even if you don't choose to save to disk for better testing of LoRA to checkpoint merges. 
- Be sure to enter name for the checkpoint to be saved on LoRA Tab for saving (same for LoRA to LoRA). 2 - 6+ LoRAs can be merged at once now into the same checkpoint with individual weight adjustment.
- LoRA to LoRA merge now has checkboxes for selection and can now merge differant tensor sizes together. 
- Fixed save with model_ema removed from Discard causing crash. Removing clip from excluded does allow the clip to be merged changing the output.
- History and Preset Tab added.

- SD 1.5 and FLUX to SDXL model merge capability added via switch. Highly suggest a very low ingest rate. Experiment with different merge modes. Some work better than others. SLERP and Add Dissimilarities to start.
- May new Merge modes added. Everything up to SLERP should work fine. Use the mode switch if you plan to do cross model merging. I've yet to do proper testing with the rest. Please report any errors encountered - be careful of memory overflow errors.
- Updated DARE and Train Differance and Smooth Mix (only A - B) with additional Smooth Mix Train Diff mixed mode for 3 model ingest.
- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Works now with Dev branch of Automatic1111 - needed for 50xx: This is not required for normal function: 
- I suggest updating your xformers for performance increase with additional line of "set XFORMERS_PACKAGE=xformers==0.0.30" in your start.bat, and using the most recent Flash Attention for the Python version you use. 
- I use 3.11 Python and 12:8 CUDA in Automatic1111 so for me it would be: https://github.com/PLISGOOD/flash-attention-windows-wheels/releases/tag/v2.7.4.post1. Update in venv - Use a AI to help figure out which version you need and how to install it.
- Use these command lines in the start.bat to force enable for 50xx users. "set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--force-enable-xformers --xformers-flash-attention".

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Planned:
- Cleanup UI
- Save loaded checkpoint on LoRA tab. 
- Save loaded checkpoint FP32 support. 
- Forge ( & Neo ) support - it probably will need a seperate branch - hopefully not.
- Make it so Dissimular tensor sizes are possible to merge from Lora to Checkpoint. Lora to Lora tensor size mismatch already works - so you could just do that first and then ingest the resulting Lora into Checkpoint as things stand now.

- Please report any errors with logs.

Feel free to use anything you see. Many thanks and credit to all below for all their hard work.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Batteries Included - Advanced Model Merging for Stable Diffusion

A powerful Stable Diffusion checkpoint merging extension with **15 merge algorithms**, **LoRA support**, and **intelligent caching.

Warning: LORA TAB IS UNHINGED and may need therapy. We've placed it under heavy supervision while we re-align it's morals. AKA: We've got it under construction because an LLM doesn't understand certain concepts.

## 🎉 Now Works on Forge!

This is an ongoing project to give diversity in the webUI economy... er by that we mean...

It works on forge now. We're actively maintaining this and finding new adventurous toys that we can shove into this that gives this that EXPLORATORY FEEL! .. not the suppository feel.

Batteries ARE included because some of us are still running on rechargeable batteries from 30+ years ago.

### ✨ What's New in This Fork

- ✅ **Forge Compatibility** - Works on both SD WebUI Forge AND A1111!
- ✅ **6 New Merge Modes** - Added Triple Sum, Quad Sum, Multiply Difference, Sum Twice, Self, and Tensor modes
- ✅ **LoRA Merging** - Merge LoRAs to checkpoints or combine multiple LoRAs
- ✅ **Bug Fixes** - Fixed DARE (Power-up) division by zero crash
- ✅ **4-Model Support** - Quad Sum mode finally uses all 4 model slots!

---

## 🚀 Features

### Advanced Merge Algorithms (15 Total!)

**Basic Modes:**
- **Weight-Sum** - Classic linear interpolation between two models
- **Self** - Multiply model weights by a scalar value

**Multi-Model Modes:**
- **Triple Sum** - Weighted blend of 3 models
- **Quad Sum** - Weighted blend of 4 models (NEW!)
- **Sum Twice** - Hierarchical two-stage merging

**Difference-Based Modes:**
- **Add Difference** - Add weighted difference: `A + (B-C) × α`
- **Multiply Difference** - Multiplicative difference: `A × ((B-C) × α + 1)` (NEW!)
- **Train Difference** - Treat difference as fine-tuning relative to base model

**Advanced Interpolation:**
- **Comparative Interp** - Adaptive interpolation based on value differences
- **Enhanced Manual Interp** - Manual threshold control for interpolation
- **Enhanced Auto Interp** - Automatic threshold calculation

**Research-Based Methods:**
- **Power-up (DARE)** - Drop And REscale from research papers (FIXED!)
- **Extract** - Merge common/uncommon features between models
- **Add Dissimilarities** - Add dissimilar features to base model

**Experimental:**
- **Tensor** - Swap entire tensors by probability instead of blending (NEW!)

### LoRA Support

- **Merge LoRA to Checkpoint** - Permanently bake a LoRA into a checkpoint with adjustable strength
- **Merge Multiple LoRAs** - Combine 2-3 LoRA files with custom weights

### Performance Features

- **Calculation Caching** - Reuses intermediate calculations to speed up subsequent merges
- **Multi-threading** - Configurable worker threads for parallel operations
- **Memory Efficient** - Smart caching with configurable size limits (0-16GB)

---

## 📋 Requirements

- Stable Diffusion WebUI (A1111) **OR** Stable Diffusion WebUI Forge
- Only supports `.safetensors` format checkpoints
- Python 3.10+ with torch, safetensors, scipy (usually pre-installed)

---

## 🎯 Compatibility

| Platform | Status | Tested Version |
|----------|--------|----------------|
| SD WebUI Forge | ✅ Working | Latest (2024) |
| SD WebUI A1111 | ✅ Working | 1.7.0 - 1.9.3+ |
| SD 1.5 Models | ✅ Fully Supported | All variants |
| SDXL Models | ✅ Generally Works | May have edge cases |

---

## 🙏 Credits & Inspiration

This extension builds upon the excellent work of:

- **Original Extension:** [groinge/sd-webui-untitledmerger](https://github.com/groinge/sd-webui-untitledmerger)
- **Silveroxides Fork** [silveroxides/sd-webui-untitledmerger](https://github.com/silveroxides/sd-webui-untitledmerger)
- **Our Fork** [ktiseos_nyx/sd-webui-supermerger](https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/sd-webui-untitledmerger)
- **Supermerger:** [hako-mikan/sd-webui-supermerger](https://github.com/hako-mikan/sd-webui-supermerger) - UI patterns and merge algorithms
- **DARE/Power-up:** [martyn/safetensors-merge-supermario](https://github.com/martyn/safetensors-merge-supermario) - Research implementation
- **MergeLM:** [yule-BUAA/MergeLM](https://github.com/yule-BUAA/MergeLM) - Theoretical foundations

---

## 🛠️ Installation

1. Navigate to your WebUI extensions folder:
   ```bash
   cd stable-diffusion-webui/extensions/
   # OR for Forge:
   cd stable-diffusion-webui-forge/extensions/
   ```

2. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/sd-webui-untitledmerger.git
   ```

3. Restart your WebUI

4. Look for the **"Untitled merger"** tab!

---

## 📖 Usage

### Basic Checkpoint Merging

1. Select your merge mode from the dropdown
2. Choose base models (2-4 depending on mode)
3. Adjust sliders for merge weights
4. Configure save options (fp16/bf16, autosave, etc.)
5. Click **Merge**!

### Advanced Features

- **Custom Sliders** - Per-block weight control for fine-grained merging
- **Include/Exclude Filters** - Regex-based layer targeting
- **Supermerger Adjust** - Fine-tune detail, contrast, brightness, and color
- **YAML Weight Editor** - Batch operations via configuration files

### LoRA Merging

- **LoRA → Checkpoint:** Bake a LoRA into a model permanently
- **LoRA → LoRA:** Combine multiple LoRAs with custom ratios

---

## 🐛 Known Issues & Limitations

- Image generation tab intentionally removed (not needed for merging workflow)
- LoRA merging uses heuristic key matching (may need adjustment for exotic LoRAs)
- SDXL merging works but less tested than SD 1.5

---

## 📝 To-Do List

- [ ] XYZ plotting for parameter exploration
- [ ] State saving and merge history
- [ ] Improve LoRA key matching for better compatibility
- [ ] Block weight presets compatible with Supermerger format
- [ ] Merge history logger


---
## Fork history



Who forked it from this fork:

---

## 📜 License

Same as original - check [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 💬 Support

For issues, feature requests, or questions:
- Open an issue on GitHub
- Check existing issues for solutions

---

**Happy Merging!** 🎨✨

Commit message:

Enhance README with usage instructions and updates
Added usage instructions for weight editor and merge types. Updated personal edits and fixes section with new features and optimizations.

readme.md, after:

TLDR: git clone https://github.com/Isaiah53John316/sdwebui-Amethyst-Merger.git

Use:
- Weight Editor: This is actually very important now for special cross model merges using some algorithms like DARE. Consult AI referancing this repository. Normally you will not need to touch this.
- Include/Keep/Discard - Defaults to dropping Clip and model_ema. Remove them from boxes if you want to keep.
- Expand the Tab you want to use on the Lora page - Name the Checkpoint and check the box to save if not testing. Choose Lora name for saving Lora to Lora.
- Make sure to use the correct corrosponding Merge Modes with compatible Calculation Modes and vice versa - the descriptions on each calculation mode should help with use.
- Be sure to switch Merge Type to Cross-Arch if you intend to do SD 1.5 or Flux into SDXL.
- Switch to CPU/float32 in Options if you want faster merge speeds in most cases. 

# Personal Edits and Fixes:
- UI updated - Huge WIP.
- Performance optimizations and memory optimizations.
- LoRA tab fixes. Autosave toggle added. Model now loads after merge even if you don't choose to save to disk for better testing of LoRA to checkpoint merges. 
- Be sure to enter name for the checkpoint to be saved on LoRA Tab for saving (same for LoRA to LoRA). 2 - 6+ LoRAs can be merged at once now into the same checkpoint with individual weight adjustment.
- LoRA to LoRA merge now has checkboxes for selection and can now merge differant tensor sizes together. 
- Fixed save with model_ema removed from Discard causing crash. Removing clip from excluded does allow the clip to be merged changing the output.
- History and Preset Tab added.

- SD 1.5 and FLUX to SDXL model merge capability added via switch. Highly suggest a very low ingest rate. Experiment with different merge modes. Some work better than others. SLERP and Add Dissimilarities to start.
- Many new Merge Modes added. Everything up to SLERP should work fine. Use the mode switch if you plan to do cross model merging. I've yet to do proper testing with the rest. Please report any errors encountered - be careful of memory overflow errors.
- Updated DARE and Train Differance and Smooth Mix (only A - B) with additional Smooth Mix Train Diff mixed mode for 3 model ingest.
- 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Works now with Dev branch of Automatic1111 - needed for 50xx: This is not required for normal function: 
- I suggest updating your xformers for performance increase with additional line of "set XFORMERS_PACKAGE=xformers==0.0.30" in your start.bat, and using the most recent Flash Attention for the Python version you use. 
- I use 3.11 Python and 12:8 CUDA in Automatic1111 so for me it would be: https://github.com/PLISGOOD/flash-attention-windows-wheels/releases/tag/v2.7.4.post1. Update in venv - Use a AI to help figure out which version you need and how to install it.
- Use these command lines in the start.bat to force enable for 50xx users. "set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--force-enable-xformers --xformers-flash-attention".

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Planned:
- Cleanup UI
- Save loaded checkpoint on LoRA tab. 
- Save loaded checkpoint FP32 support. 
- Forge ( & Neo ) support - it probably will need a seperate branch - hopefully not.
- Make it so Dissimular tensor sizes are possible to merge from Lora to Checkpoint. Lora to Lora tensor size mismatch already works - so you could just do that first and then ingest the resulting Lora into Checkpoint as things stand now.

- Please report any errors with logs.

Feel free to use anything you see. Many thanks and credit to all below for all their hard work.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Batteries Included - Advanced Model Merging for Stable Diffusion

A powerful Stable Diffusion checkpoint merging extension with **15 merge algorithms**, **LoRA support**, and **intelligent caching.

Warning: LORA TAB IS UNHINGED and may need therapy. We've placed it under heavy supervision while we re-align it's morals. AKA: We've got it under construction because an LLM doesn't understand certain concepts.

## 🎉 Now Works on Forge!

This is an ongoing project to give diversity in the webUI economy... er by that we mean...

It works on forge now. We're actively maintaining this and finding new adventurous toys that we can shove into this that gives this that EXPLORATORY FEEL! .. not the suppository feel.

Batteries ARE included because some of us are still running on rechargeable batteries from 30+ years ago.

### ✨ What's New in This Fork

- ✅ **Forge Compatibility** - Works on both SD WebUI Forge AND A1111!
- ✅ **6 New Merge Modes** - Added Triple Sum, Quad Sum, Multiply Difference, Sum Twice, Self, and Tensor modes
- ✅ **LoRA Merging** - Merge LoRAs to checkpoints or combine multiple LoRAs
- ✅ **Bug Fixes** - Fixed DARE (Power-up) division by zero crash
- ✅ **4-Model Support** - Quad Sum mode finally uses all 4 model slots!

---

## 🚀 Features

### Advanced Merge Algorithms (15 Total!)

**Basic Modes:**
- **Weight-Sum** - Classic linear interpolation between two models
- **Self** - Multiply model weights by a scalar value

**Multi-Model Modes:**
- **Triple Sum** - Weighted blend of 3 models
- **Quad Sum** - Weighted blend of 4 models (NEW!)
- **Sum Twice** - Hierarchical two-stage merging

**Difference-Based Modes:**
- **Add Difference** - Add weighted difference: `A + (B-C) × α`
- **Multiply Difference** - Multiplicative difference: `A × ((B-C) × α + 1)` (NEW!)
- **Train Difference** - Treat difference as fine-tuning relative to base model

**Advanced Interpolation:**
- **Comparative Interp** - Adaptive interpolation based on value differences
- **Enhanced Manual Interp** - Manual threshold control for interpolation
- **Enhanced Auto Interp** - Automatic threshold calculation

**Research-Based Methods:**
- **Power-up (DARE)** - Drop And REscale from research papers (FIXED!)
- **Extract** - Merge common/uncommon features between models
- **Add Dissimilarities** - Add dissimilar features to base model

**Experimental:**
- **Tensor** - Swap entire tensors by probability instead of blending (NEW!)

### LoRA Support

- **Merge LoRA to Checkpoint** - Permanently bake a LoRA into a checkpoint with adjustable strength
- **Merge Multiple LoRAs** - Combine 2-3 LoRA files with custom weights

### Performance Features

- **Calculation Caching** - Reuses intermediate calculations to speed up subsequent merges
- **Multi-threading** - Configurable worker threads for parallel operations
- **Memory Efficient** - Smart caching with configurable size limits (0-16GB)

---

## 📋 Requirements

- Stable Diffusion WebUI (A1111) **OR** Stable Diffusion WebUI Forge
- Only supports `.safetensors` format checkpoints
- Python 3.10+ with torch, safetensors, scipy (usually pre-installed)

---

## 🎯 Compatibility

| Platform | Status | Tested Version |
|----------|--------|----------------|
| SD WebUI Forge | ✅ Working | Latest (2024) |
| SD WebUI A1111 | ✅ Working | 1.7.0 - 1.9.3+ |
| SD 1.5 Models | ✅ Fully Supported | All variants |
| SDXL Models | ✅ Generally Works | May have edge cases |

---

## 🙏 Credits & Inspiration

This extension builds upon the excellent work of:

- **Original Extension:** [groinge/sd-webui-untitledmerger](https://github.com/groinge/sd-webui-untitledmerger)
- **Silveroxides Fork** [silveroxides/sd-webui-untitledmerger](https://github.com/silveroxides/sd-webui-untitledmerger)
- **Our Fork** [ktiseos_nyx/sd-webui-supermerger](https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/sd-webui-untitledmerger)
- **Supermerger:** [hako-mikan/sd-webui-supermerger](https://github.com/hako-mikan/sd-webui-supermerger) - UI patterns and merge algorithms
- **DARE/Power-up:** [martyn/safetensors-merge-supermario](https://github.com/martyn/safetensors-merge-supermario) - Research implementation
- **MergeLM:** [yule-BUAA/MergeLM](https://github.com/yule-BUAA/MergeLM) - Theoretical foundations

---

## 🛠️ Installation

1. Navigate to your WebUI extensions folder:
   ```bash
   cd stable-diffusion-webui/extensions/
   # OR for Forge:
   cd stable-diffusion-webui-forge/extensions/
   ```

2. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/sd-webui-untitledmerger.git
   ```

3. Restart your WebUI

4. Look for the **"Untitled merger"** tab!

---

## 📖 Usage

### Basic Checkpoint Merging

1. Select your merge mode from the dropdown
2. Choose base models (2-4 depending on mode)
3. Adjust sliders for merge weights
4. Configure save options (fp16/bf16, autosave, etc.)
5. Click **Merge**!

### Advanced Features

- **Custom Sliders** - Per-block weight control for fine-grained merging
- **Include/Exclude Filters** - Regex-based layer targeting
- **Supermerger Adjust** - Fine-tune detail, contrast, brightness, and color
- **YAML Weight Editor** - Batch operations via configuration files

### LoRA Merging

- **LoRA → Checkpoint:** Bake a LoRA into a model permanently
- **LoRA → LoRA:** Combine multiple LoRAs with custom ratios

---

## 🐛 Known Issues & Limitations

- Image generation tab intentionally removed (not needed for merging workflow)
- LoRA merging uses heuristic key matching (may need adjustment for exotic LoRAs)
- SDXL merging works but less tested than SD 1.5

---

## 📝 To-Do List

- [ ] XYZ plotting for parameter exploration
- [ ] State saving and merge history
- [ ] Improve LoRA key matching for better compatibility
- [ ] Block weight presets compatible with Supermerger format
- [ ] Merge history logger


---
## Fork history



Who forked it from this fork:

---

## 📜 License

Same as original - check [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 💬 Support

For issues, feature requests, or questions:
- Open an issue on GitHub
- Check existing issues for solutions

---

**Happy Merging!** 🎨✨
